Service accounts are managed graphically in the
Services Microsoft Management Console.
Of course, you can always do this through PowerShell as well,
and you'll find that oftentimes,
most often when you install an application that in turn installs one or more
services they use the local system account identity by default.
You'll find that in Windows there's a number of identities.
They're called identities as opposed to user accounts to
separate the fact that these identities do not show up in
your Local Users and Groups lists, and that they're managed entirely by Windows.
You don't interact with them other than specifying them
from time to time for your services.
There's Local Service, Local System, and Network Service.
The two local accounts have various levels of
built-in privileges on the Local System,
and Network Service allows the potential for a service to
reach across the network or even the internet.
Now on the right hand side of this slide I'm showing one
of the Adobe Creative Suite services, it's called AdobeUpdateService,
and I didn't set it to use Local System account,
it just is defaulting there,
and so therefore you don't have to supply a password,
and Local System's a fairly high privileged account.
Sometimes, especially on server systems,
you'll need to use a dedicated account that you create.
Typically it would be an inactive directory domain.
You would create a domain user account,
and then you can specify that service account specifically.
You see that This account option in this properties sheet,
and the Browse button that allows you to browse the directory if,
of course, you're connected to an Active Directory domain.
Nonetheless,
don't make the mistake of defaulting to a domain
administrator privilege for your service accounts.
That used to be fairly general practice because the idea was
you've got a line of business application,
maybe an email server, that everybody in the business relies on,
so you need it to work.
If you supply an administrative account as the service account the idea
is you shouldn't run into any permission problems,
and while that's true, in general,
there's also the profound security implication that if malware were
to hijack that account it will wreck havoc because it will have
permissions up to and including all permissions granted to that
administrative service account identity,
you see?
Another point,
when you create your own service account in Active Directory make
sure you never use that for interactive logon.
In other words, a human should never use a service account. It's used only by processes and code.